docs/development/plugins/embeddable/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.md) &gt; [EmbeddableFactory](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.md)

## EmbeddableFactory interface

EmbeddableFactories create and initialize an embeddable instance

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface EmbeddableFactory<TEmbeddableInput extends EmbeddableInput = EmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput extends EmbeddableOutput = EmbeddableOutput, TEmbeddable extends IEmbeddable<TEmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput> = IEmbeddable<TEmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput>, TSavedObjectAttributes extends SavedObjectAttributes = SavedObjectAttributes> extends PersistableState<EmbeddableStateWithType> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [isContainerType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.iscontainertype.md) | <code>boolean</code> | True if is this factory create embeddables that are Containers. Used in the add panel to conditionally show whether these can be added to another container. It's just not supported right now, but once nested containers are officially supported we can probably get rid of this interface. |
|  [isEditable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.iseditable.md) | <code>() =&gt; Promise&lt;boolean&gt;</code> | Returns whether the current user should be allowed to edit this type of embeddable. Most of the time this should be based off the capabilities service, hence it's async. |
|  [savedObjectMetaData](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.savedobjectmetadata.md) | <code>SavedObjectMetaData&lt;TSavedObjectAttributes&gt;</code> |  |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.type.md) | <code>string</code> |  |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [canCreateNew()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.cancreatenew.md) | If false, this type of embeddable can't be created with the "createNew" functionality. Instead, use createFromSavedObject, where an existing saved object must first exist. |
|  [create(initialInput, parent)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.create.md) | Resolves to undefined if a new Embeddable cannot be directly created and the user will instead be redirected elsewhere.<!-- -->This will likely change in future iterations when we improve in place editing capabilities. |
|  [createFromSavedObject(savedObjectId, input, parent)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.createfromsavedobject.md) | Creates a new embeddable instance based off the saved object id. |
|  [getDefaultInput(partial)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getdefaultinput.md) | Can be used to get any default input, to be passed in to during the creation process. Default input will not be stored in a parent container, so any inherited input from a container will trump default input parameters. |
|  [getDisplayName()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getdisplayname.md) | Returns a display name for this type of embeddable. Used in "Create new... " options in the add panel for containers. |
|  [getExplicitInput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getexplicitinput.md) | Can be used to request explicit input from the user, to be passed in to <code>EmbeddableFactory:create</code>. Explicit input is stored on the parent container for this embeddable. It overrides any inherited input passed down from the parent container. |

Commit message:

Makes lens default editor in dashboard
Added all editors menu to dashboard panel toolbar

Fixed toggle on editor menu

Removed unnecessary comments

Added data test subjects to editor menu buttons

Populated editor menu with vis types

Removed unused imports

Fixed imports

Adds showCreateNewMenu prop to AddPanelFlyout

Rearranged order of editor menu options

Fixed ts errors

Added groupnig to embeddable factory

Use embeddable state transfer service to redirect to editors

Added showGroups to TypeSelectionState

Fixed add panel flyout test

Fixed data test subjects

Fixed factory groupings

Removed unused import

Fixed page object

Added telemtry to dashboard toolbar

Added telemtry to editor menu

Fix ml embeddable functional tests

Fix lens dashboard test

Fix empty dashboard test

Fixed ts errors

Fixed time to visualize security test

Fixed empty dashboard test

Fixed clickAddNewEmbeddableLink in dashboardAddPanel service

Fixed agg based vis functional tests

Revert test changes

Fixed typo

Fix tests

docs/development/plugins/embeddable/public/kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.md) &gt; [EmbeddableFactory](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.md)

## EmbeddableFactory interface

EmbeddableFactories create and initialize an embeddable instance

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
export interface EmbeddableFactory<TEmbeddableInput extends EmbeddableInput = EmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput extends EmbeddableOutput = EmbeddableOutput, TEmbeddable extends IEmbeddable<TEmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput> = IEmbeddable<TEmbeddableInput, TEmbeddableOutput>, TSavedObjectAttributes extends SavedObjectAttributes = SavedObjectAttributes> extends PersistableState<EmbeddableStateWithType> 
```

## Properties

|  Property | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
|  [grouping](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.grouping.md) | <code>UiActionsPresentableGrouping</code> | Indicates the grouping this factory should appear in a sub-menu. Example, this is used for grouping options in the editors menu in Dashboard for creating new embeddables |
|  [isContainerType](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.iscontainertype.md) | <code>boolean</code> | True if is this factory create embeddables that are Containers. Used in the add panel to conditionally show whether these can be added to another container. It's just not supported right now, but once nested containers are officially supported we can probably get rid of this interface. |
|  [isEditable](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.iseditable.md) | <code>() =&gt; Promise&lt;boolean&gt;</code> | Returns whether the current user should be allowed to edit this type of embeddable. Most of the time this should be based off the capabilities service, hence it's async. |
|  [savedObjectMetaData](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.savedobjectmetadata.md) | <code>SavedObjectMetaData&lt;TSavedObjectAttributes&gt;</code> |  |
|  [type](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.type.md) | <code>string</code> |  |

## Methods

|  Method | Description |
|  --- | --- |
|  [canCreateNew()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.cancreatenew.md) | If false, this type of embeddable can't be created with the "createNew" functionality. Instead, use createFromSavedObject, where an existing saved object must first exist. |
|  [create(initialInput, parent)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.create.md) | Resolves to undefined if a new Embeddable cannot be directly created and the user will instead be redirected elsewhere.<!-- -->This will likely change in future iterations when we improve in place editing capabilities. |
|  [createFromSavedObject(savedObjectId, input, parent)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.createfromsavedobject.md) | Creates a new embeddable instance based off the saved object id. |
|  [getDefaultInput(partial)](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getdefaultinput.md) | Can be used to get any default input, to be passed in to during the creation process. Default input will not be stored in a parent container, so any inherited input from a container will trump default input parameters. |
|  [getDisplayName()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getdisplayname.md) | Returns a display name for this type of embeddable. Used in "Create new... " options in the add panel for containers. |
|  [getExplicitInput()](./kibana-plugin-plugins-embeddable-public.embeddablefactory.getexplicitinput.md) | Can be used to request explicit input from the user, to be passed in to <code>EmbeddableFactory:create</code>. Explicit input is stored on the parent container for this embeddable. It overrides any inherited input passed down from the parent container. |
